feat: precondition guides (#91)
sapphiredev/website: docs/Guide/preconditions/command-cooldown.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Configuring command cooldowns
---

Cooldowns are of vital importance for many bots to avoid excessive command usage, API ratelimits, and so on. Luckily,
Sapphire makes it easy to integrate them into your commands! At its simplest level, cooldowns can be used in specific
commands via the [`cooldownDelay`][cooldowndelay] property in the command's options. This value is amount of
milliseconds that a user will have to wait after using a command to use it again. Here's a basic example:

```typescript ts2esm2cjs|{7}|{7}
import { Command } from '@sapphire/framework';

export class PingCommand extends Command {
  public constructor(context: Command.Context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...

>       cooldownDelay: 10_000 // 10_000 milliseconds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      cooldownDelay: 10_000 // 10_000 milliseconds (10 seconds)
```

    });
  }
}
```

> If you now try to run this command, and then run it again within 10 seconds, the command won't execute, and an error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you now try to run this command, and then run it again within 10_000 milliseconds (10 seconds), the command won't execute, and an error
```

will be thrown. You can learn how to process that error [here][reporting-precondition-failure].

:::info

`cooldownDelay` only accepts a value of milliseconds, which is not known to be the easiest to read or calculate. To
help, you can use [@sapphire/time-utilities][timeutils], which includes utilities for time transformers.

```typescript ts2esm2cjs|{8}|{8}
import { Command } from '@sapphire/framework';
import { Time } from '@sapphire/time-utilities';

export class PingCommand extends Command {
  public constructor(context: Command.Context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...
      cooldownDelay: Time.Second * 10 // Much easier for humans to read
    });
  }
}
```

You can view the docs [here][timeenum].

:::

## User Exceptions

It's very common to not want cooldowns to apply to certain people, for example, the bot owner. This can be achieved by
adding [`cooldownFilteredUsers`][cooldownfilteredusers] to the options. This option should be an array of users ID that
the bot can ignore when calculating cooldowns.

> ```typescript ts2esm2cjs|{7}|{7}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript ts2esm2cjs|{8}|{8}
```

import { Command } from '@sapphire/framework';

export class PingCommand extends Command {
  public constructor(context: Command.Context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...

>       cooldownDelay: 10_000 // 10_000 milliseconds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      cooldownDelay: 10_000 // 10_000 milliseconds (10 seconds)
```

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Configuring command cooldowns
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Cooldowns are of vital importance for many bots to avoid spam, API ratelimits, etc. Luckily, Sapphire makes it easy to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cooldowns are of vital importance for many bots to avoid excessive command usage, API ratelimits, and so on. Luckily, Sapphire makes it easy to
```

[`cooldownDelay`][cooldowndelay] property in the command's options. This value is amount of milliseconds that a user will
have to wait after using a command to use it again. Here's a basic example:

<Tabs groupId="language-choice">
<TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript" default>

```javascript {7}
const { Command } = require('@sapphire/framework');

module.exports = class PingCommand extends Command {
  constructor(context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...
      cooldownDelay: 10_000 // 10_000 milliseconds
    });
  }
};
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ESM" label="ESM">

```javascript {7}
import { Command } from '@sapphire/framework';

export class PingCommand extends Command {
  constructor(context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...
      cooldownDelay: 10_000 // 10_000 milliseconds
    });
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript {6}
import { ApplyOptions } from '@sapphire/decorators';
import { Command, CommandOptions } from '@sapphire/framework';

@ApplyOptions<CommandOptions>({
  // ...
  cooldownDelay: 10_000 // 10_000 milliseconds

> })

Reviewer: Pre-emptively get rid of the decorator so it's less work after #97 is merged, be that before or after this PR.

export class PingCommand extends Command {}
```

</TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer 2: Ditto

Reviewer: She can't do that until #97 is merged and this will likely be merged sooner

If you now try to run this command, and then run it again within 10 seconds, the command won't execute, and an error will
be thrown. You can learn how to process that error [here][reporting-precondition-failure].

:::info

`cooldownDelay` only accepts a value of milliseconds, which is not known to be the easiest to read or calculate. To help,

> you can use [@sapphire/time-utilities], which includes utilities for time transformers.

Reviewer: uncompleted link here

> <Tabs groupId="language-choice">

Reviewer 2: Ditto but is it even merged yet??

Reviewer: She can't do that until #97 is merged and this will likely be merged sooner

<TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript" default>

```javascript {7}
const { Command } = require('@sapphire/framework');
const { Time } = require('@sapphire/time-utilities');

module.exports = class PingCommand extends Command {
  constructor(context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...

>       cooldownDelay: Time.Second * 10; // Much easier for humans to parse

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      cooldownDelay: Time.Second * 10; // Much easier for humans to read
```

    });
  }
};
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ESM" label="ESM">

```javascript {7}
import { Command } from '@sapphire/framework';
import { Time } from '@sapphire/time-utilities';

export class PingCommand extends Command {
  constructor(context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...

>       cooldownDelay: Time.Second * 10; // Much easier for humans to parse

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      cooldownDelay: Time.Second * 10; // Much easier for humans to read
```

    });
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript {6}
import { ApplyOptions } from '@sapphire/decorators';
import { Command, CommandOptions } from '@sapphire/framework';
import { Time } from '@sapphire/time-utilities';

@ApplyOptions<CommandOptions>({
  // ...

>   cooldownDelay: Time.Second * 10; // Much easier for humans to parse

Reviewer 2: For humans? we don't parse, we read :D
```suggestion
  cooldownDelay: Time.Second * 10; // Much easier for humans to read
```

> })

Reviewer: Pre-emptively get rid of the decorator so it's less work after #97 is merged, be that before or after this PR.

export class PingCommand extends Command {}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

You can view the docs [here][timeutils].

:::

## User Exceptions

It's very common to not want cooldowns to apply to certain people, for example, the bot owner. This can be achieved by

> adding [`cooldownFilteredUsers`][cooldownfilteredusers] to the options. This option should be an array of users ID that

Reviewer 2: Unrelated to your PR but oh god its a hardcoded array? who thought that was a good idea? .w.
Can it be a callback too? If yes, show that too please!

Reviewer: It's in the constructor in which you can do anything above making the super call

Author: Yeah but you can only access the `context` for that, right? If it's a function you could give it the `message` argument to, for example, query the db, grab the mod role, and ignore all mods.

Reviewer: Uh yeah that's true. This'll be something to pick up at a later date when we can figure out a good way to go about this I think. The precondition itself gets the message of course so that's a starting point at least.

const { Command } = require('@sapphire/framework');

module.exports = class PingCommand extends Command {
  constructor(context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...
      cooldownDelay: 10_000, // 10_000 milliseconds
      cooldownFilteredUsers: ['YOUR_ID'] // Ignore the bot owner
    });
  }
};
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ESM" label="ESM">

```javascript {8}
import { Command } from '@sapphire/framework';

export class PingCommand extends Command {
  constructor(context) {
    super(context, {
      // ...
      cooldownDelay: 10_000, // 10_000 milliseconds
      cooldownFilteredUsers: ['YOUR_ID'] // Ignore the bot owner
    });
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript {7}
import { ApplyOptions } from '@sapphire/decorators';
import { Command, CommandOptions } from '@sapphire/framework';

@ApplyOptions<CommandOptions>({
  // ...
  cooldownDelay: 10_000 // 10_000 milliseconds
  cooldownFilteredUsers: ['YOUR_ID'] // Ignore the bot owner
})
export class PingCommand extends Command {}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Advanced Usage

Accompanying `cooldownDelay`, you also have access to the options [`cooldownLimit`][cooldownlimit] and

> [`cooldownScope`][cooldownscope].

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4019718/143722762-63324b1e-20ee-4d92-8ddc-fc7dbb601e4c.png)

Reviewer 2: Is [this](https://github.com/sapphiredev/website/pull/91/files#r757819950) resolved?

Reviewer: yes

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4019718/143785678-01759432-bd50-48a2-af74-0bc8b814de0d.png)

`cooldownLimit` will define how many times a command can be used before a cooldown is put into affect. This value is set
to `1` by default. For example, a `cooldownDelay` of `10_000` milliseconds and a `cooldownLimit` of 2 will effectively
mean that you'd be able to use the command twice every 10 seconds.

Another useful option is `cooldownScope`, which will define the scope of the cooldown. This is useful if you want to

> have a cooldown that applies per guild, for example, instead of per user. [Valid options][scopes] are `'CHANNEL'`,

Reviewer 2: As above, don't list the scopes here, just point to where they can see them

title: Configuring command cooldowns
---

<<<<<<< HEAD

> =======

Reviewer: Merge markerss

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

Cooldowns are of vital importance for many bots to avoid excessive command usage, API ratelimits, and so on. Luckily,
Sapphire makes it easy to integrate them into your commands! At its simplest level, cooldowns can be used in specific
commands via the [`cooldownDelay`][cooldowndelay] property in the command's options. This value is amount of
milliseconds that a user will have to wait after using a command to use it again. Here's a basic example:

<<<<<<< HEAD
```typescript ts2esm2cjs|{7}|{7}

> =======

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript {7}

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

}
```

<<<<<<< HEAD

> =======

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

`cooldownDelay` only accepts a value of milliseconds, which is not known to be the easiest to read or calculate. To
help, you can use [@sapphire/time-utilities][timeutils], which includes utilities for time transformers.

<<<<<<< HEAD
```typescript ts2esm2cjs|{8}|{8}

> =======

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript {6}

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

}
```

<<<<<<< HEAD

> =======

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

adding [`cooldownFilteredUsers`][cooldownfilteredusers] to the options. This option should be an array of users ID that
the bot can ignore when calculating cooldowns.

<<<<<<< HEAD
```typescript ts2esm2cjs|{7}|{7}

> =======

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript {7}

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

}
```

<<<<<<< HEAD

> =======

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

can be achieved by adding [`defaultCooldown`][defaultcooldown] to your [`SapphireClient`][sapphire] options. You can use
any of the properties shown above with this option.

<<<<<<< HEAD
```typescript ts2esm2cjs|{5-10}|{5-10}

> =======

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

<TabItem value="ESM" label="ESM">

```javascript {5-10}

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

void client.login('your-token-goes-here');
```

<<<<<<< HEAD

> =======

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> >>>>>>> bce70940bf8edd1967c694d4ec08344839c08ecd

Reviewer: ![](https://play.pokemonshowdown.com/sprites/ani/ditto.gif)
